AUTOPANO-SIFT(7)                   Overview                   AUTOPANO-SIFT(7)



NAME
       autopano-sift - Automatic panorama stitching package

INTRODUCTION
       The  autopano-sift  package contains a number programs to ease the cre-
       ation of panoramic images. A tedious task in panoramic  image  creation
       from  many  individual images is the aligning of the images so they fit
       together. This is normally done by  using  control  points  which  give
       information  about shared image features. For example, image two images
       of a church. Lets assume both images overlap so that the rooftop of the
       church is visible in both. By telling a panorama software that the roof
       is in both images at a specific position the images can be aligned.  At
       least  three  control point pairs between every two images are required
       usually.

       The manual work of creating this control points can be  immense.  Espe-
       cially  for  panorama images holding more than one line of images there
       is a huge number of possible overlaps.

       The autopano-sift package can automatically create control point  pairs
       by using a combination of sophisticated algorithms and models. For most
       feature-rich images it works very well, often outperforming  humans  in
       coverage, precision and speed.

       In  the following, the individual utilities are introduced. If you want
       a quick start, try the autopanog(1) GUI frontend.


DESCRIPTION
       autopanog The GTK# GUI frontend for generating and matching  SIFT  key-
       points.  As  a  user wanting to stitch panorama images, this is all you
       will ever need. See autopanog(1)

       autopano The keypoint matching program. It can take SIFT keypoint files
       as input and produce PTO output files. See autopano(1)

       generatekeys  The SIFT keypoint extraction program. Takes an image from
       you, and gives keypoints back. Optionally can downscale the image to  a
       given resolution, so your memory size is cared for. See generatekeys(1)

       showone Show the SIFT keypoints overlayed over the  source  image.  Use
       includes  debugging and tuning of SIFT parameters and to get an impres-
       sion how well spread the keypoints are. See showone(1)

       showtwo Do simplistic matching of SIFT keypoints  between  two  images,
       without  geometric  model.  Use  includes representing general matching
       quality. Optionally filter only  a  given  number  of  "best"  keypoint
       matches. See showtwo(1)


BUGS
       If you find any bugs in the programs, please mail the author.

AUTHOR
       Sebastian Nowozin <nowozin at cs dot tu dash berlin dot de>

SEE ALSO
       autopano(1), autopanog(1), generatekeys(1), showone(1), showtwo(1)



autopano-sift                      MAY 2004                   AUTOPANO-SIFT(7)
